And so what we'll be doing today
as far basically going forward for
the rest of the workshop, you can find all
the different snapshots of where we start
and stop inside of
the individual branches.
And so basically 01-begin,
let me go ahead and add everything.
So check, take status, what do we change?
We change the playground, and so
the playground was for me, so
let me go ahead git,
feature: add live coding for essentials.
Let's see, reactive data in playground.
Okay, so I'm gonna push that up, oop,
git push, I haven't got this yet,
let's do this real quick.
All right, great, and so check out
01-exercise git push origin 01-exercise.
Okay, so if you go ahead and
pull down the latest changes now,
you should be able to see all the stuff
that I did inside of the playground.
Now, of course,
I saw that some people were coding along,
which I was really happy to see.
But of course, we're gonna actually give
you a chance to actually practice that
on your own without any guidance.
So the way that's gonna work,
is what you to do is choose your favorite
TV show, or if you don't watch TV,
try movie or basically anything
that is personal to you.
And basically use the index.html page that
we have in there that's already ready for
you to play around with.
And I want you to go ahead and replicate
what we just did as far as go ahead and
create that app,
create a view app using the CDN.
Add some reactive data tracking to track
maybe some characters on the show and
whatnot.
I want you to practice using the v-if,
v-for.
So v-if to basically track
if there are no characters.
This should show some sort of text
element that says, hey, no characters.
And then when it populates it,
it swaps it out.
And then go ahead and
drop in as much reactive data as you want.
Again, play, have fun with this, and yeah.
So from my end, I'm gonna go ahead and
open up index.html as you all did.
And for me, I'm gonna go ahead and
do Avatar The Last Airbender,
that's the one I'm gonna do.
And so inside of here,
we're gonna go ahead and
copy over the CDN include,
That I used earlier.
And then from here, we'll go ahead and
we'll start setting up the app.
So again, the convention here is div,
id-"#app".
And the reason for this is because
typically the frameworks will go ahead and
render a bunch of stuff in there.
So the div, it doesn't have any semantic
value as far as from the screen readers
and that kinda thing.
So that's why the convention
is usually to use a div.
But if for whatever reason you
wanna attach it to something else,
by all means, feel empowered to do so.
Okay, so what do we say?
We're gonna create some data, so
let's say const (createApp) = Vue.
And actually, I'm gonna do just for
the sake of showing you the div,
that they're the equivalent.
We can basically do Vue.createApp,
like this, and
then this can be a data function.
Now ,I'm gonna show you a new syntax
that I personally I prefer to use,
which is that I'll use the arrow function
for basically assigning a function to
data, and then I'll wrap
the object in the parentheses.
So it basically saves
a couple lines of code.
So just to split,
show the difference on that real quick,
You'll see here this is the difference,
right, data with a parenthesis,
then the actual explicit return.
This has the implicit return with the
arrow, and then we can find our data here.
So here, I can do my characters like this,
and then I'll go ahead and
collapse this now so
that we have the single column.
Okay, so then we'll have four objects.
So actually, I'm gonna go ahead and
do real quick, this is 1, 2, 3, 4.
I'm gonna use a multi-cursor
select by holding down Cmd,
might be Ctrl for Windows.
And then I'll just open
up basically an object so
that I don't have to do
that multiple times.
Great, and then let's just save that
real quick, sort of auto-format.
Once again, let's click through and
let's add some properties.
So we'll have basically the name of
the character, and that's basically it.
So in this case,
we have Aang, we have Zuko.
We have Toph, and we have Katara.
All right, So first thing first,
we're gonna do now is let's go ahead and
actually render out our empty state.
So the way we can do that is we're
gonna do a p element and say,
there are no characters.
And so we'll save this right now and
let's go ahead and
actually open this up
inside of the browser.
So instead of playground,
we'll go to index.
There we go, there are no characters.
And then we'll have the ul here.
And just like before, we will practice
now the v4 element that we had.
So for every character in characters,
although actually this is surfacing
a philosophical point that I like to
do when it comes to naming things.
One off errors are very
common in programming and
I find that happens
a lot with spelling too.
And so the one s plural has
caught me in multiple times.
So personally, I usually like
to just say that it's a list.
It's a little bit longer, but then you
just have that visual distinction.
It's a character in characterList, and
then I can just render out character.name,
which is great.
Although, hmm, what's happening here,
why is not it working?
This is a common mistake that we often
make when we're sort of creating the app
this way, is because what we have to
remember to do is we need to tell Vue that
we need to mount it.
So we're gonna go ahead and
run the mount command on this, and
we're gonna mount it to the id app.
And once we do that, save, refresh.
I broke something.
Warn selector, why is that the case?
Well, typos, didn't I say something
about one off errors right here?
This is one that'll catch you off guard,
because in your mind you're thinking
CSS selector, but
you don't need the extra hashtag symbol.
Hey, there we go, everything's working.
So now, all we gotta do,
though, is complete the exercise
by saying if characterList.length === 0,
then show that, otherwise show this, okay?
As you can see, boom,
there we go, it's working.
If we go ahead and just go ahead and
update that real quick,
you'll see there are no
characters showing up.
Now, something worth noting about the v-if
directive though is that when you use
the v-if directive,
what Vue is actually doing is,
if you take a look here, Is that the ul
that you have here for the else condition
does not even exist on the DOM.
So basically,
the elements are being destroyed and
recreated each time you toggle that.
So as you can see here,
now if we take a look at the app,
you'll notice here that the ul's
precedent that the p tag is gone.
And so, this is contrary to another
directive that you will see in Vue called
v-show, which is, I'll say,
its less popular cousin.
And that's because what v-show does is
it toggles the visibility of the element
via CSS.
And so the reason you want those two
different approaches is because there
are times where there might be
a performance bottleneck of destroying
a list of thousands of items.
And then having the DOM recreated every
time someone toggles it on and off, and
you might just wanna show or hide it.
So that's where v-show, v-hide could
be very useful in those regards.
So once again, the idea here,
building on what we know and
trying to make it easy for us to do
the right performance optimization.
So that's a trade-off to
consider when using v-if.
But again, I'd say 95% of the time,
that is what you wanna use.
But the moment you start thinking,
users are gonna be toggling this a lot and
it might be expensive to destroy it,
reach out for v-show.